did you know with a lot of money and a
promise to create jobs you can come and
live in America most people don't know
that it's a government program that
entices immigrants to create jobs at a
time when America really needs them this
future retail and office complex near
safeco field wouldn't be built without
money from overseas investors we applied
from japan svetlana iniki ava is one of
them she's from Russia where she and her
husband ran an export business in
Vladivostok in return for her
half-million dollar investment ms anna
cava her husband and daughter get green
cards good for permanent residency in
the United States it's possible through
a 21 year old program called eb-5 how
did you hear about eb-5 internet most
people who come to ub5 program they
don't want to be investors they want to
be in American respects Miss Annie Kaiba
considers eb-5 a win-win situation
immigrants bring in half a million
dollars of legally obtained money they
have two years to invest that money and
create at least 10 full-time jobs if
they do they get a green card and if
they invest wisely they earn a profit
when they sell their investment so this
is 1 this is 1 and now up here eb-5
investors often contact this van henry
liebman for years he's helped the feds
make sure the money is clean not from
drugs or organized crime
his firm american life inc then pools
the money and develops projects in the
soto neighborhood like this storage
facility near the old brewery this
retail building that houses a wine shop
on fourth avenue and the transformation
of the alaska building into a hotel eb-5
requires that the investments produce
jobs in areas of high unemployment like
soto or Moses Lake where BMW recently
located a carbon fiber plant we see it
as a mixture of light industrial and
flex space and a kind of an area like
south and market or the pearl district
where you have a lot of a lot of uses
that are very diverse in the last seven
years leavin says American life has
helped 850 immigrants get their green
cards and created 16,000 jobs mostly in
sodo nationwide Immigration Services
estimates over the last 20 years eb-5
has attracted well over one and a half
billion dollars creating more than
31,000 jobs leave men agrees that eb-5
favors the rich when it comes to
immigration I mean do you want to have a
system where people can invest in to
have what you might call a fast track
well if you want the capital the answers
yes if you don't care about the capital
than the answer's no form is an Akiva it
was the fastest way to realize the dream
of having her daughter educated in a
politically secure country first of all
since immigration is happening anyway
it's better to bring money into American
economy and create jobs the eb-5 program
is allotted ten thousand visas a year
last year 1885 people were awarded green
cards through the program Immigration
Services predicts this year alone eb-5
is on track to raise more than a billion
dollars and create more than 25,000 jobs
the eb-5 program is set to expire next
September unless Congress extends it or
makes it permanent